v5.10.17 (#35354)
mui-org/material-ui: CHANGELOG.md

# [Versions](https://mui.com/versions/)

## 5.10.17

<!-- generated comparing v5.10.16..master -->

_Dec 5, 2022_

A big thanks to the 15 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - @mnajdova added a Material You Button playground (#35222)

Reviewer: Not sure if it is worth to be highlighted, but if we decide to do it, let’s add a link to it :)

- 🔧 @hbjORbj renamed `components` / `componentProps` to `slots` / `slotProps` prop in Joy UI to create consistency across products (#34997)
- Many other 🐛 bug fixes, 📚 documentation, and ⚙️ infrastructure improvements

### `@mui/material@5.10.17`

- &#8203;<!-- 28 -->[material-ui] Add channel colors if possible (#35178) @siriwatknp
- &#8203;<!-- 10 -->[Fab] Increase disabled styles precedence (#35304) @Uzwername
- &#8203;<!-- 05 -->[Rating] Apply `labelEmptyValueActive` style overrides from theme (#35315) @sai6855

### `@mui/system@5.10.17`

> - &#8203;<!-- 04 -->[system] Add flags for nested CssVarsProvider (#35277) @siriwatknp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- &#8203;<!-- 04 -->[system] Add support for nested CssVarsProvider (#35277) @siriwatknp
```

it’s about the functionality not the implementation :)

### `@mui/joy@5.0.0-alpha.57`

> - &#8203;<!-- 08 -->[Joy] Add `slots`/`slotProps` props to the typing of all components and apply `useSlot` to all components (#34997) @hbjORbj

Reviewer: We should add a Breaking changes section here

- Many other 🐛 bug fixes, 📚 documentation, and ⚙️ infrastructure improvements

### `@mui/material@5.10.17`

- &#8203;<!-- 28 -->[material-ui] Add channel colors if possible (#35178) @siriwatknp
- &#8203;<!-- 10 -->[Fab] Increase disabled styles precedence (#35304) @Uzwername
- &#8203;<!-- 05 -->[Rating] Apply `labelEmptyValueActive` style overrides from theme (#35315) @sai6855

### `@mui/system@5.10.17`

- &#8203;<!-- 04 -->[system] Add support for nested CssVarsProvider (#35277) @siriwatknp

### `@mui/joy@5.0.0-alpha.57`

#### BREAKING CHANGE

- &#8203;<!-- 08 -->[Joy] Add `slots`/`slotProps` props to the typing of all components and apply `useSlot` to all components (#34997) @hbjORbj

  - Change all occurrences of `components` and `componentsProps` props in Joy UI components to `slots` and `slotProps`, respectively.
  - Change casing of slots' fields to camelCase

  ```diff
  -<Autocomplete components={{Root: CustomRoot}} componentsProps={{input: { className: 'custom-input' }}} />
  +<Autocomplete slots={{root: CustomRoot}} slotProps={{input: { className: 'custom-input' }}} />

>   ```

Reviewer: Don’t we have a codemod? If yes we should mention it here

Author: - `@mui-codemod` [README](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/master/packages/mui-codemod/README.md#joy-rename-components-to-slots) explains how to run the appropriate codemod for this breaking change.
  
  Does this seem enough?

Reviewer: Let’s link the codemod in the breaking changes section, this is what I meant :)

Author: I made this [commit](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/pull/35354/commits/e157aeba5cd8d006a3d71add10b80f5043d0c47e). Let me know if that's what you meant.

# [Versions](https://mui.com/versions/)

## 5.10.17

<!-- generated comparing v5.10.16..master -->

_Dec 5, 2022_

A big thanks to the 15 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - @mnajdova added a [Material You Button playground](https://mui.com/material-ui/react-button/#material-you-version) (#35222)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- 🛝 @mnajdova added a [Material You Button playground](https://mui.com/material-ui/react-button/#material-you-version) (#35222)
```

- 🔧 @hbjORbj renamed `components` / `componentProps` to `slots` / `slotProps` prop in Joy UI to create consistency across products (#34997)
- Many other 🐛 bug fixes, 📚 documentation, and ⚙️ infrastructure improvements

### `@mui/material@5.10.17`

- &#8203;<!-- 28 -->[material-ui] Add channel colors if possible (#35178) @siriwatknp
- &#8203;<!-- 10 -->[Fab] Increase disabled styles precedence (#35304) @Uzwername
- &#8203;<!-- 05 -->[Rating] Apply `labelEmptyValueActive` style overrides from theme (#35315) @sai6855

### `@mui/system@5.10.17`

- &#8203;<!-- 04 -->[system] Add support for nested CssVarsProvider (#35277) @siriwatknp

### `@mui/joy@5.0.0-alpha.57`

#### BREAKING CHANGE

- &#8203;<!-- 08 -->[Joy] Add `slots`/`slotProps` props to the typing of all components and apply `useSlot` to all components (#34997) @hbjORbj

  - Change all occurrences of `components` and `componentsProps` props in Joy UI components to `slots` and `slotProps`, respectively.

>   - Change casing of slots' fields to camelCase

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

  ```diff

>   -<Autocomplete components={{Root: CustomRoot}} componentsProps={{input: { className: 'custom-input' }}} />
>   +<Autocomplete slots={{root: CustomRoot}} slotProps={{input: { className: 'custom-input' }}} />

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  -<Autocomplete components={{ listbox: CustomListbox }} componentsProps={{ listbox: { className: 'custom-listbox' }}} />
  +<Autocomplete slots={{ listbox: CustomListbox }} slotProps={{ listbox: { className: 'custom-listbox' }}} />
```

Let's use this one. Joy UI does not have capitalized components.

  ```

>   - `@mui-codemod` [README](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/master/packages/mui-codemod/README.md#joy-rename-components-to-slots) explains how to run the appropriate codemod for this breaking change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  You can use this [codemod](https://github.com/mui/material-ui/blob/master/packages/mui-codemod/README.md#joy-rename-components-to-slots) to help with the migration.
```

### Docs

- &#8203;<!-- 23 -->[docs] Correct grammatically incorrect sentences in CONTRIBUTING.md (#34949) @Pandey-utkarsh
- &#8203;<!-- 22 -->[docs] Move the demo higher in the API TOC (#35202) @oliviertassinari
- &#8203;<!-- 21 -->[docs] Fix incorrect link in minimizing-bundle-size (#35297) @Juneezee
- &#8203;<!-- 20 -->[docs] Revise and expand Joy UI "Breadcrumbs" page (#35292) @samuelsycamore
- &#8203;<!-- 19 -->[docs] Fix wrong import in the unstyled tabs page (#35310) @guotie
- &#8203;<!-- 18 -->[docs] Disable translations (#34820) @mnajdova
- &#8203;<!-- 17 -->[docs] Fix typo (#35312) @flaviendelangle
- &#8203;<!-- 16 -->[docs] Add Material You Button playground (#35222) @mnajdova
- &#8203;<!-- 15 -->[docs] Fix experimental API page duplication (#35213) @oliviertassinari
- &#8203;<!-- 14 -->[docs] Improve the autogenerated "Unstyled" and "API" text (#35185) @samuelsycamore
- &#8203;<!-- 13 -->[docs] Fix ad margin on API pages (#35201) @oliviertassinari
- &#8203;<!-- 12 -->[docs] Revise and expand the Joy UI "Badge" page (#35199) @samuelsycamore
- &#8203;<!-- 11 -->[docs] Update MUI Base docs with latest style conventions (#35034) @samuelsycamore

> - &#8203;<!-- 09 -->[I10n] Improve Chinese (Taiwan) zh-TW locale (#35328) @happyincent

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- &#8203;<!-- 09 -->[l10n] Improve Chinese (Taiwan) zh-TW locale (#35328) @happyincent
```

- &#8203;<!-- 02 -->[website] Update MUI stats: GitHub stars, Twitter followers, etc. (#35318) @nomandhoni-cs

> - &#8203;<!-- 01 -->[website] Remove BlackFriday notification @oliviertassinari

Reviewer 4: I think that this is "Core". It doesn't impact the docs.

# [Versions](https://mui.com/versions/)

## 5.10.17

<!-- generated comparing v5.10.16..master -->

> _Dec 5, 2022_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Dec 6, 2022_
```

A big thanks to the 15 contributors who made this release possible. Here are some highlights ✨:

> - 🛝 @mnajdova added a [Material You Button playground](https://mui.com/material-ui/react-button/#material-you-version) (#35222)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ✨ @mnajdova added a [Material You Button playground](https://mui.com/material-ui/react-button/#material-you-version) (#35222)
```
